>> Brian Holt: Well,
let's talk about arrays now.
So an array, you'll often hear me
refer to them as lists as well.
For the sake of JavaScript, those are
synonymous terms, link arrays and lists.
So yeah, if I say that just realize
that's what I actually mean, but
they are called arrays in JavaScript.
In other languages,
there are multiple types of arrays.
In JavaScript, there is just the array.
There's nothing else.
>> Brian Holt: So something that bears
mentioning about objects is they
are unordered, right?
So despite the fact up here that
I declared my object name first,
then city, then state.
I heard there is no order implied there,
right?
So if I asked for the spec,
in fact, notice it gives it back
to me in a different order.
I declared name first, but
it gives me back city first.
I think it's just alphabetizing it, right?
Yeah, it alphabetized it here.
So you have no guarantee
of order with objects.
>> Speaker 2: Can you force an order?
>> Brian Holt: No, you can't.
That's part of the specs of objects.
Cuz it's like if I put a bunch of
marbles into a bag and I reach out and
pull marbles out of the bag,
I have no guarantee of what order I'm
gonna get the marbles back out it.
It's kind of the same concept.
Your putting properties into a property
bag and then your pulling them out,
but that's the point of arrays.
Arrays are ordered, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Wait, so how do you
determine if it's an array or an object?
Is it just between curly brackets and
square brackets?
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Speaker 2: You crack the code.
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So
objects are used for things that
don't necessarily have order, right?
Like for example,
the properties of a person don't
necessarily have an order, right?
That doesn't mean like should
their address first come first or
their name come first, but there's not
really an implied order there, nor
is it necessarily important.
However, if I'm talking about days of
the week, there is an order there that
needs to be preserved, right,
and that's what I raise her for.
So in this particular case,
the order that I put them in there is
the order that they're going to stay.
So if I console.log(daysOfTheWeek),
notice they come back in
precisely in the same order.
And if I asked for days of the week
zero arrays started zero, this is very,
very important for you to remember.
I will probably say like seven more
times a raise started at zero.
So the first element of
an array is index zero, okay?
So if I asked for
the first element of the re index zero,
I get Monday, right,
which is the first thing that I put in.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: That's a constant
in JavaScript though,
that it always starts at zero, right?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, everything starts.
For example, those strings that
we were just working on, right,
everything starts at zero and that's
pretty much every programming language.
There's like some old language that
I can't remember which one it is.
It starts at one and it was wrong.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Everything starts at zero
in programming.
So this is the preferred way here where
you use the square brackets afterwards to
access particular properties
in those arrays, right?
So I put 0 in between the square brackets.
>> Brian Holt: I'm not mistaken
it should work with a dot,
as well
>> Brian Holt: So that's what arrays for
things that you want to keep together that
have some sort of order implied with them.
>> Brian Holt: Notice that
these are all strings.
In JavaScript, they don't necessarily
have to be a homogeneous type.
It doesn't necessarily have to be all
strings are all numbers are all objects or
anything like that.
However, I'm just going to admonish you
that it will help if they are all the same
things.
Because it's just eliminate
entire classes of bugs, right,
if you keep it them to be the same
types like it would be all strings or
all the same types of objects.